css-and-scss/css-and-scss.md, before:

# CSS and SCSS

## Architecture

### Reset and normalize

Easy reset using [reset-css](https://www.npmjs.com/package/reset-css). Install and import `@import 'reset-css';`

```bash
npm install reset-css
```

Set global border-box and height

```scss
html {
  -webkit-box-sizing: border-box;
  -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}
*,
*:before,
*:after {
  -webkit-box-sizing: inherit;
  -moz-box-sizing: inherit;
  box-sizing: inherit;
}

html,
body {
  height: 100%;
}
```

### Structuring sass projects

- [Structuring your sass projects](https://itnext.io/structuring-your-sass-projects-c8d41fa55ed4)

## Responsive

### Media-queries mixins

- [Writing media-queries with sass mixins](https://itnext.io/writing-media-queries-with-sass-mixins-3ea591ea3ea4)

## CSS GRID / Flexbox

Grid

- [CSS Grid Cheatsheet](https://dev.to/joyshaheb/css-grid-cheat-sheet-illustrated-in-2021-1a3)
- [CSS Trics - The complete grid](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/complete-guide-grid/)
- [Grid Malven - CSS Grid visual web guide](http://grid.malven.co/)

Flexbox

- [CSS Flexbox Cheatsheet](https://dev.to/joyshaheb/flexbox-cheat-sheets-in-2021-css-2021-3edl)

### Moderne layout methods

#### auto vs 1fr

- Auto is same as min-content, meaning only take up size of content
- 1fr takes up all remaining space

#### auto-fit vs auto-fill

- auto-fit will not expand further than its min-width in minmax
- auto-fill will always expand to edges, as long as min-width in minmax is not too low

#### centering

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  place-items: center;
}
```

#### minmax

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: minmax(150px, 25%) 1fr;
}
```

#### grid-template one line

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-template: auto 1fr auto / auto 1fr auto;

  .header {
    grid-column: 1/4;
  }

  .left-side {
    grid-column: 1/2;
  }

  .content {
    grid-column: 2/3;
  }

  ...
}
```

#### repeat

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(12, 1fr);

  .header {
    grid-column: 1 / 13;
  }
}
```

#### RAM (Repeat, Auto, Minmax)

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(150px, 1fr));
}

.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(150px, 1fr));
}
```

#### Line up cards with aligned content and img

```scss
.parent {
  height: auto;
  display: grid;
  grid-gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);

  .img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100px;
  }

  .card {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    padding: 1rem;
    justify-content: space-between; // makes first and last element always aligned correctly
  }
}
```

### Preventing a grid blowout

- [Preventing a grid blowout](https://css-tricks.com/preventing-a-grid-blowout/)

### Without media queries

- [Look Ma, No Media Queries! Responsive Layouts Using CSS Grid](https://css-tricks.com/look-ma-no-media-queries-responsive-layouts-using-css-grid)

### Prevent content overflow

Fix by using `max-width: 100%;` and `overflow: hidden;` on your child elements. Example:

```css
#imgEditContainer {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr);
  column-gap: 5px;
  justify-items: center;
}

.img {
  max-width: 100%;
  max-height: 100%;
  overflow: hidden;
}
```

## Spacing in CSS

### Spacing in CSS: References

- [Spacing in CSS](https://ishadeed.com/article/spacing-in-css/)

### Margin collapse

Stick to `margin-bottom` on elements. Because if top element has `margin-bottom` and element below has `margin-top`, the largest `margin` will win and the other one be ignored. If last element should not have margin:

```css
.element:not(:last-child) {
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
}
```

If child element exists inside parrent that has `margin-bottom`, then to push down child element, use `padding-top` on the parent, to avoid ignoring child `margin-top` because of margin collapse.

### Negative Margin

If parent has margin, and child element needs to stick to edges of parent, use `negative margins`.

```css
.parent {
  padding: 1rem;
}

.child {
  margin-left: -1rem;
  margin-right: -1rem;
  margin-top: -1rem;
}
```

To make a card, with padded text but border to the edge, use a combination of `padding` and `negative margin`.

![card](../_media/use-case-card-5.jpg)

```css
.card__meta {
  padding: 10px 10px 0 10px;
  border-top: 1px solid #e9e9e9;
  margin: 0 -10px;
}
```

### Padding not working

Padding only works on `display: inline-block`. Elements like `<span>`, `<a>` that has `display: inline` has no effect. So change the `display` property to have effect:

```css
.element span {
  display: inline-block;
  padding-top: 1rem;
  padding-bottom: 1rem;
}
```

### CSS Grid gap

Add CSS Grid gap using `grid-gap`.

```css
.element {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
  grid-gap: 16px; /* Adds gap of 16px for both rows and columns */
}
```

.. or more specific

```css
.element {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
  grid-row-gap: 24px;
  grid-column-gap: 16px;
}
```

!> CSS Flexbox currently only supports `gap` in Firefox.

## Tips and tricks

### Control scroll in elements

Set overflow: hidden on body, to stop scroll set on body.

```css
body {
  overflow: hidden;
}
```

Add `overflow: auto` on parent element of the element that should have scroll. If using angular components, use :host to set overflow on the host div:

```scss
:host {
  overflow: auto;
}

.container {
  height: 5000px;
}
```

### Dark theme

You can either use a class to change to dark theme, or you can use the OS to read if the user prefers dark theme in the browser:

```scss
@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  html {
    background: #000;
    filter: invert(1) hue-rotate(180deg);
  }
  img,
  video,
  iframe,
  canvas,
  svg {
    filter: invert(1) hue-rotate(180deg);
  }
}
```

Commit message:

add art Sass (scss) migrating to new module system in Angular

css-and-scss/css-and-scss.md, after:

# CSS and SCSS

## Dart Sass (scss) migrating to new module system in Angular

In order to use the Sass migrating tool to migrate automatically to the new module system, some ground work needs to be done first.

1) the migration should be done in smaller steps, so first focus on your primary src/styles.scss file, and all the shared scss files like _colors.scss,_typography.scss, _system-icons.scss etc.
2) manually go into each of these files, and make sure all the imports are in the order of the primaries first that just export variables, like colors etc., and after thoese comes the shared scss files that combines these to build _buttons.scss,_alert.scss etc. This step is crucial for the tool migrator to understand that colors come from _colors.scss and not via_alert.scss (because _alert.scss technically also can export_colors.scss)
3) then run your script, you can start by running it just on src/styles.scss to see if everything looks alright (macOS pwsh):

```pwsh
sass-migrator module `  --migrate-deps `  --load-path src `  --load-path src/content/scss/defaults `  --load-path src/content/scss/components `  --load-path src/content/scss/utilities `  --load-path node_modules `  src/styles.scss
```

4) then you can go ahead and migrate all the scss files in the shared folder:

```pwsh
sass-migrator module `  --migrate-deps `  --load-path src `  --load-path src/content/scss/defaults `  --load-path src/content/scss/components `  --load-path src/content/scss/utilities `  --load-path node_modules `  "src/content/scss/**/*.scss"
```

## Architecture

### Reset and normalize

Easy reset using [reset-css](https://www.npmjs.com/package/reset-css). Install and import `@import 'reset-css';`

```bash
npm install reset-css
```

Set global border-box and height

```scss
html {
  -webkit-box-sizing: border-box;
  -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}
*,
*:before,
*:after {
  -webkit-box-sizing: inherit;
  -moz-box-sizing: inherit;
  box-sizing: inherit;
}

html,
body {
  height: 100%;
}
```

### Structuring sass projects

- [Structuring your sass projects](https://itnext.io/structuring-your-sass-projects-c8d41fa55ed4)

## Responsive

### Media-queries mixins

- [Writing media-queries with sass mixins](https://itnext.io/writing-media-queries-with-sass-mixins-3ea591ea3ea4)

## CSS GRID / Flexbox

Grid

- [CSS Grid Cheatsheet](https://dev.to/joyshaheb/css-grid-cheat-sheet-illustrated-in-2021-1a3)
- [CSS Trics - The complete grid](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/complete-guide-grid/)
- [Grid Malven - CSS Grid visual web guide](http://grid.malven.co/)

Flexbox

- [CSS Flexbox Cheatsheet](https://dev.to/joyshaheb/flexbox-cheat-sheets-in-2021-css-2021-3edl)

### Moderne layout methods

#### auto vs 1fr

- Auto is same as min-content, meaning only take up size of content
- 1fr takes up all remaining space

#### auto-fit vs auto-fill

- auto-fit will not expand further than its min-width in minmax
- auto-fill will always expand to edges, as long as min-width in minmax is not too low

#### centering

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  place-items: center;
}
```

#### minmax

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: minmax(150px, 25%) 1fr;
}
```

#### grid-template one line

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-template: auto 1fr auto / auto 1fr auto;

  .header {
    grid-column: 1/4;
  }

  .left-side {
    grid-column: 1/2;
  }

  .content {
    grid-column: 2/3;
  }

  ...
}
```

#### repeat

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(12, 1fr);

  .header {
    grid-column: 1 / 13;
  }
}
```

#### RAM (Repeat, Auto, Minmax)

```scss
.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(150px, 1fr));
}

.parent {
  display: grid;
  grid-gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(150px, 1fr));
}
```

#### Line up cards with aligned content and img

```scss
.parent {
  height: auto;
  display: grid;
  grid-gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);

  .img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100px;
  }

  .card {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    padding: 1rem;
    justify-content: space-between; // makes first and last element always aligned correctly
  }
}
```

### Preventing a grid blowout

- [Preventing a grid blowout](https://css-tricks.com/preventing-a-grid-blowout/)

### Without media queries

- [Look Ma, No Media Queries! Responsive Layouts Using CSS Grid](https://css-tricks.com/look-ma-no-media-queries-responsive-layouts-using-css-grid)

### Prevent content overflow

Fix by using `max-width: 100%;` and `overflow: hidden;` on your child elements. Example:

```css
#imgEditContainer {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr);
  column-gap: 5px;
  justify-items: center;
}

.img {
  max-width: 100%;
  max-height: 100%;
  overflow: hidden;
}
```

## Spacing in CSS

### Spacing in CSS: References

- [Spacing in CSS](https://ishadeed.com/article/spacing-in-css/)

### Margin collapse

Stick to `margin-bottom` on elements. Because if top element has `margin-bottom` and element below has `margin-top`, the largest `margin` will win and the other one be ignored. If last element should not have margin:

```css
.element:not(:last-child) {
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
}
```

If child element exists inside parrent that has `margin-bottom`, then to push down child element, use `padding-top` on the parent, to avoid ignoring child `margin-top` because of margin collapse.

### Negative Margin

If parent has margin, and child element needs to stick to edges of parent, use `negative margins`.

```css
.parent {
  padding: 1rem;
}

.child {
  margin-left: -1rem;
  margin-right: -1rem;
  margin-top: -1rem;
}
```

To make a card, with padded text but border to the edge, use a combination of `padding` and `negative margin`.

![card](../_media/use-case-card-5.jpg)

```css
.card__meta {
  padding: 10px 10px 0 10px;
  border-top: 1px solid #e9e9e9;
  margin: 0 -10px;
}
```

### Padding not working

Padding only works on `display: inline-block`. Elements like `<span>`, `<a>` that has `display: inline` has no effect. So change the `display` property to have effect:

```css
.element span {
  display: inline-block;
  padding-top: 1rem;
  padding-bottom: 1rem;
}
```

### CSS Grid gap

Add CSS Grid gap using `grid-gap`.

```css
.element {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
  grid-gap: 16px; /* Adds gap of 16px for both rows and columns */
}
```

.. or more specific

```css
.element {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
  grid-row-gap: 24px;
  grid-column-gap: 16px;
}
```

!> CSS Flexbox currently only supports `gap` in Firefox.

## Tips and tricks

### Control scroll in elements

Set overflow: hidden on body, to stop scroll set on body.

```css
body {
  overflow: hidden;
}
```

Add `overflow: auto` on parent element of the element that should have scroll. If using angular components, use :host to set overflow on the host div:

```scss
:host {
  overflow: auto;
}

.container {
  height: 5000px;
}
```

### Dark theme

You can either use a class to change to dark theme, or you can use the OS to read if the user prefers dark theme in the browser:

```scss
@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  html {
    background: #000;
    filter: invert(1) hue-rotate(180deg);
  }
  img,
  video,
  iframe,
  canvas,
  svg {
    filter: invert(1) hue-rotate(180deg);
  }
}
```
